Most cats adore sardines.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Female cats are polyestrous
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Female cats are polyestrous
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
